There is a standard MVC, or model‑view‑controller, design
pattern that you may or may not have seen before.
It's a pretty common pattern now,
and most developers have at least seen it or heard of it.
A request comes in through the view based off of some user event
and then is interpreted by our controller.
The controller can change the model, or not,
and then it will select the view based off of our action.
From here,
the model can update the view with the database off of the user's
actions. Now this graphic is sometimes confusing,
though,
because it's stemmed from rich client applications that were more event‑based or
using a design pattern called the observer observable or subscribe listener type
design patterns, not really applicable to a lot of web software development. The
pattern and concept is still sound,
but we usually don't have our model updating our view because
we've gone back to a page at that point.
This is a more accurate description of that kind of lifecycle
that we maybe faced with in web development.
This graphic is realistically more like the lifecycle
that we will see in our web application.
Our view can access our model, but it's usually done so through the controller.
We'll look more at the lightweight approaches in the
AJAX module later in this course,
but the summary is we usually still make a request, even if it's
a lightweight request, through our controller to access our
model. We don't have our view typically going directly against our database or our model.